From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes.
Oh, weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists. Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number three 93. Recorded live
Thursday, October 10th, 2013. This episode of
Hansel minutes is brought to
you by Tellerik offering the
best in developer tools and
support online@telerikdotcomandbyfranklins.net makers of gesture
pack a powerful gesture, recording
and recognition system for Microsoft
connect for windows developers details.
Add gesture P a k.com.
In this episode, Scott dog's
with Travis Pope from end
connected.com about the mobile phone
struggle. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes. And on
the phone I've got Travis
Pope from en connected.com. That's
E N connected.com freelance journalist.
You'll also have seen travels
his work on gotta be
mobile. How are you? I'm
good. You I'm pretty good.
I wanted to talk to
you about phones because you
are an known expert on
mobile stuff. Cause you love
everything mobile. And you've been
a hardcore windows phone person
for a long time, Around
three years now, since 2000
since before. Well that's a
long time, then that's the
full life of that product.
And I I've always had
this kind of, I wouldn't
say love, hate relationship. It's
more of like an uncomfortable
kind of, I keep coming
back to a relationship where,
you know, I got an
iPhone when I first started
out in, in smartphones. That
was kinda my first smartphone
because there was no windows
phone. And I just kind
of went at and T
and upgraded and upgraded and
upgraded. And then I've been
trying windows phones consistently and
blogging about it. I had
a Lumia 800. I had
a Samsung, what was the
original Samsung called? Oh man.
It's been awhile before they
renamed everything to the ative
the Samsung flat, no Focus,
focus. That's exactly right. I
had a focus. I hadn't
then I had a Nokia
800 and then a nine
20 and then a 10
20 most recently. What, what
windows phones have you used?
So I've used, let's see,
my first one was the
HTC HD seven, then a
after that was the, the
HTC Titan, the Delvin new
pro the HTC eight X.
And now I've got a
Lumia nine 20. I've had
some hands on time with
some of the other ones
like the Lumion nine 25,
but I haven't used them
day to day. But I
understand recently you had kind
of a publicized breakup in
the sense that you just,
your main phone now is
an iPhone. Is that true?
Yeah, so it wasn't really
a breakup as much as
it was just a realization
of where, where Microsoft's mobile
efforts stand now versus where
they were when I got,
got a windows phone. And
I think, you know, a
lot of people who read
the, who read about publicized
breakout with windows phone interpreted
as, you know, windows, my
relationship with windows phone, not
being so healthy, but actually
it's my decision to do
this is more about Microsoft's
other efforts actually moving into
great direction to the point
where I didn't necessarily need
a windows phone to get
a lot of the great
services that they provide. Well,
that's interesting. So you're saying
that you're still kind of
like quote unquote team Microsoft
or as Jimmy and Joe
and Jimmy Fallon would say
hashtag team Microsoft. Well, that's
exactly correct. I think a
lot of people interpreted my
initial article as a, you
know, Microsoft's failed in mobile
when actually the problem for
when this phone, in my
opinion is really that the
rest of Microsoft has gotten
so much better. Right? So
back in the day, Microsoft
would release a feature that's
specific to windows for, like
for example, zoon would be
specific to windows, Zune music,
the unlimited streaming music service.
Exactly. So you would, you
would get a product like
that and you'd have to
use a Microsoft. You'd have
to use windows phone in
order to get it. And
now that's just not the
case. The rest of Microsoft
has really embraced mobile platforms
in a way that we
haven't seen before Google does
this a lot with its
products. But until very recently,
Microsoft didn't do such a
good job of it. Yeah.
You know, I see on
the, I have an iPhone
sitting on the desk here
and I have a little
folder on it called office
and in it are native
iPhone apps. I've got one
note, I've got outlook, which
is freaking me out. Okay,
it's called OWA outlook, web
access, but it's outlook. It's
really amazing. It's actually weird
to be using Metro type
styling on a iPhone. I've
got link, which is freaking
amazing, like link the link
mobile strategy. We should talk
about that because if you've
ever used it, it's across
every device and you get
screen sharing. It's amazing. I've
got Skype, I've got SkyDrive
and now I've got office
mobile. So I've got tiny
Excel and tiny word and
tiny PowerPoint on my iPhone,
on my iPad. Yeah. I
mean, it's just the, company's
done a really good job
of embracing. Clearly the company
has become better about embracing
other people's mobiles mobile platforms.
And that's great. That's great
for everyone. That's great for
when his phone users that's
great for our Microsoft users.
That's great for iPhone users.
I've got SkyDrive, you know,
like I've got being on
my iPhone, I've got all
of these products that, you
know, just if it was
just two years ago with
windows phone, 7.5, you know,
I would have never left
if I would've never left
it. Those applications weren't available.
Yeah. And so the, now
what was, it was something
not working that you would
move off? Cause I know
that people who love windows
phone are fervent, and this
is the thing about phone
people. They like their, this
religiously. They love their phone.
Like if you argue with
an Android person, they will
beat you down. If you
disrespect Android and you know,
everyone loves their team For
me for windows phone. I
think the tipping point was
actually, I spend some time
with the HTC one Early
in the summer and Unlike
iPhone and unlike Android absolutely
hated the entire Android experience.
So I went back to
my windows phone and I
kind of missed it. Wasn't
the application selection that bothered
me as much as it
was the breadth of the
applications that were actually there.
Right? When this phone has
done a great job, in
my opinion of getting big
name apps. But even when
those big name apps appear,
sometimes they aren't as feature
rich as our iOS and
Android counterpart. What's an example
of that. An example of
that, let me see off
the top of my Cause
the Facebook app is pretty
good. The Facebook app has
gotten amazing, especially since they've
been releasing betas. The reason
I'm pushing back on me,
I'm pushing back on that
a little bit, because I
want to make, cause you,
you made a broad statement
there where you said that,
you know, somethings, sometimes things
aren't always feature rich. Yeah.
So for example, I can't,
I can't remember exactly what
application it was. I know
a group me was, has
a big problem with that.
And it's recently been updated
Features that aren't on the
group, me app for windows
phone that are on the
iPhone app is what you're
saying. Yeah, I see. Or
the Android app too. I
mean it works both ways.
Another big problem for me
was just that windows phone
has a great developer community,
but those applications applications may
specifically for windows phone, don't
usually have iOS and Android
counterparts. And part of my
job most of the time
is to cover iPhone or
excuse me, usually Android forgotten
mobile.com too. And I just
couldn't go back and forth
in between different applications. You
know, that, that is an
interesting point. So I I've
always proposed, you know, and
again, I work for Microsoft,
although I work in the
web on the cloud, so
I don't speak for the
company, but I've always proposed
that people have lots of
different devices in their lives.
And that it's unrealistic to
assume that a household is
gonna be all team Android
or a household is going
to be, yes, I've got
a surface and my wife
has a windows phone and
I have a windows phone
and we use it to
talk to our Xbox. You
know, the reality is folks
are mixed and people have
mixed stuff. So I might
have a Android tablet that
I love and a windows
phone that I use and
a Mac because that's reality.
You're implying that when you
have an app, that's an
exclusive on what one platform
and then you move to
another and you can't bring
your app with you. That
hurts. Exactly. So I love
I adore. We've made bus
less games from this phone.
I absolutely adore. I love,
I love everything about it.
I love how they've matured
that app over the last
few years is excellent to
use, but there isn't a
counterpart on Android or iOS
and that Celeste games doesn't
you can't, you can import
feeds from feely if I
remember correctly, but they're, they're
very adamant about we've being
a replacement for Feedly. It's
not something that you add
on to Feedly, which is
a backend RSS service that
replaced Google's Google reader. They're
very adamant about it being
an alternative. Now that's great.
If you have a windows
phone, should you go anywhere
outside of that? That's a
big, Yeah. And you know,
we've is on windows, windows
eight as well when there's
eight and 8.1 and works
great. But you're, you're right
in that. This is the
thing though, about mobile phones.
Everyone wants that exclusive. I
mean, every platform pushes that
like initially there was like
Google now on your Android
phone now of course it's
everywhere. And on, on iPhones,
there's always an exclusively on
iPhone section of the store.
Is that something that consumers
are gonna like, it's gonna
resonate with them? Like I
can only get this on
that phone. It's always been,
I think people who are
big fans of Instagram would
argue I'm wrong, but I've
never felt like that was
a big draw for, I've
a big draw for mobile
users. I think it was
more about the platform first
or the device first and
the platform then maybe the
application, it only comes. It's
only a problem. I think
when big name applications aren't
there, which is, you know,
the Instagram prompt for windows
phone, But then when a
third party app comes out
and there's several Instagram, third
party apps, the most prominent
of one being called six
tag, which is arguably as
good or better than the
Instagram client itself on iPhone.
Like what do you do
with that? Like do you
wait for Instagram to buy
them? Like, remember the whole
Foursquare thing? Right. Fourth and
Mayer was the Foursquare app
on windows phone for what
almost two years. And then
the Foursquare app came out
and arguably fourth and are
still better. Should they have
just bought that guy? I
mean, they should Instagram just
by the third party client
or is it just not
okay for the average Joe
to go and get a
third party client? I think
it's really, I think that's
really tough. A really tough
call for a lot of
people. So for example, I
use six to tag. I
adore again, a Rudy human
is one of those guys
I adore. Yeah. Amazing developer.
Actually I actually six, eight,
so good. When I went
to the about box saw
that it was Rudy and
I said, Oh, I'm just
going to download everything Rudy's
ever done because now I'm
like a fan. I wish
I could like follow developers
on a platform. Like I
don't care what the app
is. Just give me whatever
that dev did. Oh yeah.
That guy's amazing. So I
use six tag on my
windows phone. I actually use
his vine application as well
though. It's name escapes me
for some Oh six seconds.
Yeah. And I use this
news application. I don't like
to use third party clients.
And the reason why I
don't is because of windows
phone, I had some very
bad experiences with Twitter applications
just suddenly stop working on
windows. Right. Well that was
Twitter twin. That Twitter's fault
though. I mean, Twitter changed
their API point. Yeah. So
that's exactly my point. I
think the PR you don't,
these companies don't need to
buy these individual app developers
or their apps, but they
do need to be more
comfortable with opening up. Not
necessarily Opening up their ecosystem.
Yeah, Exactly. I mean, Twitter
is a poster child for
this, right? We, we grow
on the backs of developers.
We enable them to do
all these things. And then,
you know, we want to
reign in that because of
profitability concerns and just making
a better platform. And that's
great. There's nothing wrong with
that, but there's definitely room
to try and find a
compromise. Well, just a year
or two ago, there were
dozens and dozens of awesome
Twitter apps to choose from.
And now that's really compressing
and it's clear that Twitter
wants to kill all the
Twitter apps with their limitation
on the number of API
keys that they're going to
give out because they want
to control the experience. They
want to be the client.
So I think that the
you're right, that the, the
door is closing on third
party apps in general. I
know that there was another
Instagram client on windows phone
who was having trouble, where
they would upload photos. Instagram
would detect that it wasn't
uploaded by the Instagram app
and then like hide it.
I can't remember the name
of the application right now.
I do remember that that
was actually a week after
I joined Instagram for the
first time. And I remember
that being, I remember complete
Twitter uproar for, for windows
phone, from windows, phone users
and justifiably. So you don't
want to build an app
for us, but you will
delete all of our images
from the guys who did.
But I think that's just
a tough one that we
couldn't have seen coming two
or three years ago. But
now that it's here, it's
really tough to deal. Well,
and from a user's perspective,
it's extremely hard to explain
the nuance of that. Like
let's say my wife gets
a windows phone. It's pretty,
it's red. She likes it.
She gets, it gets an
Instagram app. And then suddenly
things start disappearing. It feels
punitive. Like, do they not
like us? Are we not?
You know, do we not
bleed? You know, that's, it's
not a windows phone thing
that it turns out in
that case, it was some
user agent and they were
trying to block spam. But
at the moment you don't
care. You just want to
use your app. Yeah. Yeah.
And unfortunately, a lot of
these applications because they're made
by independent developers, aren't free.
So, you know, you're, you're
investing two or three bucks
sometimes as much as tanks.
I just want to make
sure that it's clear that
you just said investing and
I thought you were going
to say 99 cents. And then
you went for two or
three bucks. That is quite
the investment. Well sometimes. Well,
that's the other thing. When
does I find windows phone
app prices are usually a
little bit more than what
I see on iOS or
Android sometimes not all the
time, but sometimes, but you
know, you've, you've invested a
lot of sweat equity and
learning to use that application.
And you know, when he
could just goes, poof, you're
out of two or three
bucks, you're out of all
the time you spent with
the app and you're left
trying to find something else.
I teased you about investment,
but you're you're right though.
One app. Sure. It's 99 cents,
a couple of hundred apps.
And a couple of years
later when you've tested a
bunch of apps and you've
got yourself down to the
40 or 50 that you
use on a regular basis,
you might be into it
for two or 300 bucks.
And when people ask me
why I resist moving to
windows phone from, from the
iOS ecosystem is just, and
I got a couple of
hundred bucks into this and
I've got to go and
buy a bunch of new
apps. That's enough to keep
people, you know, at least
power users, they've put money
into it from switching as
well. Yeah, that's definitely one
of the problems I've I've
had when switching between all
these devices. I, I had
to have invested. I'm not
a big app guy, but
I've had to invest it
about 40, maybe $30 in
windows, phone apps, probably more
because of the Xbox live
games. And when I initially
switched over to the HTC
one first, you know, I,
I'm not gonna lie. I
miss those applications. And even
when I switched, so I've
avoided buying applications on iPhone
in Android, just cause I
know I'm going to go
back to windows phone at
some point, I don't want
to become so invested that
I I'm, I think twice
about it. I mean, a
lot of people interpreted that
pieces, you know, me coming
out against windows from him
saying I'm never gonna use
it. And it really wasn't
that it was just, you
know, sometimes you need the
right tool for the right
job, which I just stole
from Tom Silva in this
old house. But it's true.
You know, like sometimes you
just want something that works
and then it has That.
You just sometimes want something
that works. And this isn't
a really important thing for
some people in their lives.
They've got, you might have
a Honda civic for your
car and you might have
a Samsung TV and you
might have an Xbox and
another person might have a
Mercedes and a PlayStation. We
all have these things in
our lives. Somebody else rides
the bus. I don't know.
But that phone and its
ecosystem needs to snap into
your life. Right? So my
wife got a Nokia nine
20. She has a red
one. Okay. If that device
hadn't paired with the Bluetooth
in her car, she would've
blamed the device. And this
is a non tech. My
wife's nontechnical she would have
gone to at and T
this phone is broken. Then
they would have given her
another one and she would
have come back. And then
she would have said, okay,
well this, this, this one
didn't work anymore. Either my
phone is broken. My car
is broken or this windows
thing, if she calls it
is broken. So there's an
example where one person has
this car and that TV
and this object in their
house and the phone ecosystem
just works. And another person
says it doesn't work. And
they say, that's a deal
breaker, no Bluetooth in my
car, give me a phone
that has Bluetooth. And they
might end up on Android
or iOS or windows phone
or whatever, simply because that
was the only device they
could get to, to work
with that one device that
they cared so much about.
Yeah. And I think, I
think those people, normal people
are justified in that. I
think the key here, I
think has always been interoperability.
And if it just doesn't,
you know, I have a
bunch of Microsoft products. I
have an Xbox three 60,
I've already, pre-ordered an Xbox
one. I have a windows
eight PC. But if these
things can't communicate with all
the other devices in my
life, all those things that
I need to get things
done, you know, I don't
know if that's necessarily investment.
Anyone should make, even if
they aren't a power user.
Yeah, no, I totally agree.
I actually wrote a blog
post about how everything is
broken and no one is
happy. And my complaint was
getting my Gmail to work
with my calendar on windows,
with my outlook and with
an Android tablet, kind of
give them all to work
together. And it was just
like, this is, this has
gotta be a solved problem.
And even today, right. We're
still trying to figure out
how to get calendars to
work like it's 2013 and
I may or may not
be able to have my
calendar everywhere. Yeah. I mean,
a lot of people think
that, I mean, I want
to be, I don't think
switched to this company solution
is necessarily the right problem,
the right answer to every
question all the time. I
feel like even with, even
with iOS, you know, if
our, excuse me, actually, a
better example is with email,
right? The answer to why
this Gmail work on my
windows phone from someone who's
usually switched to outlook.com. You
know, that's not nice. That's
not an answer. Yeah. I
mean, it's, it's the, the
underlying protocol. And then these
little protocol Wars, the whole
calendaring war back and forth
between Google and, and Microsoft
as they like, Oh, we're
shutting, calendaring down. Google says
and Microsoft like, ah, but
we kind of rely on
that to work and, Oh,
we'll turn it back on
until December. I mean, that,
that's just, how am I
supposed to explain that to
my wife? You know, how
is someone supposed to explain
that to their nontechnical husband,
your calendar doesn't work today?
Why? Well they're shutting the
government down. I mean, what
can you possibly tell someone?
I mean, a lot of
it's just, you know, political
Wars coming into the technology,
coming into the industry and,
you know, putting the brakes
on this stuff like, and
Google's defense, the licensing has
changed after seeing for Gmail
users has to cost them
something on the other. Yeah,
No, I totally understand. It's
a business decision. I think
that no one ever expects
the vocal minority to be
as loud as they end
up being well, like right
now I launched a call
burner in order to do
this call with you. And
that it says it's going
to stop working in December.
Okay. Well, Skype is changing
their desktop API. So call
burner the way that we're
doing this recording right now
will stop working December. Now
there's two ways we can
freak out about that. We
can just generally freak out.
We can find out what's
underneath that. I'm sure it's
poor messaging because surely they
have to have some API
available after December, or I'll
just start doing my audio
directly off the sound card.
But from the point of
view of someone who's, you
know, not totally technical, it's
like everything is going to
break and destroy the world
in December. And you'll never
be able to record a
call again. Well, that's exactly
what that sounded like to
me because I have no
idea, Poor messaging and actually
speaking of poor messaging, this
is, here's a funny thing
about me. I have my
windows phone, cause I'm trying
to write this, this application
for it. It's a news,
a news audio application. And
I go back and forth.
I've got these little SIM
adapters where I can swap
my SIM back and forth
between my windows phone and
Illumio at 10 20. And
I keep using the iPhone
as my main phone, but
I keep demoing things about
the 10 20 that I
really like. Like it irritates
me that my iPhone doesn't
have live tiles. You know
what I mean? It's just
a bunch of numbers. It
tells me nothing. And from
a messaging perspective, I'm convinced
that Microsoft dropped the ball
marketing, like the people hub
on fricking windows phone. I
mean, that's amazing. You can
pin people to your home
screen and then see their
tweets, Facebooks and LinkedIns. I
think that seems to be
a particular problem for not
just windows phone, but also
windows eight, right? Like windows
eight also has a centralized
people have to that rarely
ever. I can't remember one
time they actually shared any
information about it. Any windows
Eat commercial? No, you're, you
know, it's funny. It's, it's
funny. You mentioned that because
I'm looking at my, my
sister right now, I've completely
forgotten that I had actually
pinned my wife. So I
paid, I went into the
people, hub, found my wife
in my contacts, pinned her
and now I can click
there and I can, and
I've got Skype integration maps,
Facebook, Twitter. I totally forgot
about that because no one
it's not in your face.
No. And I feel like
that's the problem for windows
phone, I think is other
than live tiles and the
Metro design language. There's a
lot of innovation happening. It's
just, it's just below the
surface though, right? Like it's
there, there are great things
there. You just, they're not
in your face and because
of not in your face,
maybe it's just not a
priority for some of the
commercials and outreach at the
company. I don't know. You
know, it's funny there's there's
this kids hub feature where
you can, I don't think
you don't have kids, right?
No I don't. But I
do use kids corner for
I'm actually in the car.
I usually as a, an
impromptu mode. Yeah. So what
kids corner does, it says,
these are the only apps
that you can run when
you're in this mode. So
from the home screen, you
swipe to the side and
then you can hand the
phone to a kid and
then they'll figure it out.
But it's deep, buried in
settings. The only people who
will ever use kids corner
are those who will dig
for kids score, which is
tragic. And I mean, it,
it really is. There's some
great ideas. I mean, are
applications that can give you
a kids' corner kind of
experience on Android, but it's
not as seamless. And it's
not as easy to use
this wit, but windows phone
is doing. And I feel
like that's the problem with
this phone a lot. It's
not that they don't have
the feature set to compete.
It's that, you know, sometimes
you have to look a
little bit under the surface
to find They don't, they
don't market it. This is
the thing, like, I don't
want to see dancing people.
I want to see people
talking to me about real
problems. Like I want to
see I'm vignette of a
person having a problem and
then solving it. Like I'm
looking at Paul throws site
right now. And he's talking
about driving mode, a new
feature coming in windows, phone
update three. It's brilliant. When
it detects the Bluetooth in
your car, it automatically stops
accepting phones and text messages,
and it will text the
person back. So if my
wife calls me while I'm
driving, it will text her
and say, I'm driving, I'll
call you later. But she
so brilliant. That's genius. I
mean, in the problem is,
is, well, the other problem
is, is we're never going
to see. We're probably never
going to see that feature
advertised and the windows phone
ad for the last six
months, we've only seen specific
phone advertisements, nothing feature based,
you know, the Lumia 10
20 has the world's best
camera or something like that.
The camera's cool. I mean,
the camera's awesome. Let me
give you an example. I
was in New York. I had
the, the, the, I have
my iPhone, but I was
using the 10 20 to
get around New York because of
the subway and the, the
here transit application by far
the most amazing subway application
in existence. Like I, I
literally have been in New York
three different times in the
last two months. And each
time I swapped my SIM
into the Lumia, just because
here, here, transits that good.
Okay. I'm using the phone
and it's a yellow phone.
So you got to give
him credit for being bright.
Now of course, now that
I phones are bright too.
No, one's going to be
able to see it. But
as soon as this guy
at this restaurant saw the
phone, he's like, is that
the new phone? That's a
camera. So like brand recognition,
bright red, bright yellow phones.
The guy says, that's a
phone, that's a camera. But
now people are using that
against them and saying, well,
it's a camera. And then
they added a phone, which
is not True, which is
not true at all. And
going back a little bit
earlier to the, the public
breakup with windows phone, like
I wrote that forgot to
go mobile.com and immediately when
that came out, you know,
there were some pushback about,
well, you're a bit unfair
to Nokia. And, you know,
honestly looking back on that
part of the article, it
was just a sentence. But
I think I was, you
know, Nokia, a lot of
the great things that are
happening for windows phone are
happening because of Nokia, right?
Like, and that was, that's
another one of my concerns
for windows phone. You know,
now that Microsoft is Nanda,
Microsoft is Northern to buy
them. You know, that's great.
But the Lumia 10 20
has a great camera. You
know, Nokia has been very
great about creating very specific
for their devices that change
that. Does it change the
equation for windows phone users?
The problem is, is that
I came from a windows
phone, eight X, and I
didn't get a Lumia 10
Lumia nine 20 until about
two months ago. Right? So
I've experienced both sides of
it. And while if you
have a Lumia, you're great.
If you have an ACA
at X, you're not seeing
a lot of the great
stuff that's going on. That
is interesting because it seems
like these vendors have taken
what used to be crap
where crap, where in the
sense of, Hey, I'm HP,
here's a windows machine with
a bunch of other crap
from HP. And they're saying,
all right, let's not make
a crap word. Let's make
it value added where, and
I think Nokia went, went
all out with that. And
they said, all right, we
can build deep hooks into
the operating system where we're
going to add features that
are specific to Lumia like
headphones and Dolby and, and,
and, you know, glance mode
and all these different things
that are Lumia unique, you
know, Lumia specific, they're arguably
crap where in the sense
that they are things that
ship with the dos, but
nothing that Lumia ships would
be considered crap by any
sense of the word. You
know what I'm saying? It's
vendor it's vendor where I
don't know, we need a
better word for that. And
in my opinion, I think
that has, that's something that's
specific to windows phone, you
know, like iOS doesn't allow
it well, well, fair enough.
It's iOS has a different
equation, but you know, Android
because it's free and open
source companies take it a
bit too far. And you
end up with some things
that honestly I've used an
agency one for a month
before blink feed is terrible,
but you know, like windows
phone is one of those
platforms that allows CA allows
carriers and OEMs to customize
that kind of thing, but
not go overboard. You know,
all that stuff still on
installable. You know, it's like
Android where I'm stuck with
it from the rest of
my life. Yeah. I, I,
my wife's a at and
T she's like, what's this
at and T radio at
and T Uverse, not, not
for us. Click on install,
click on install. But speaking
of, of, of vent of
carrier, where, and then vendor,
where I've got a galaxy
S four that I'm working
on a review of, and
this thing has five different
apps called messenger messages, messaging
some from Samsung, there's like
Samsung messenger there's at and
T messenger. There's the, the,
the actual Google brand messenger.
Everyone who I've talked to
who said that their team
Android said I should torch
the phone and go stock
because there's probably 15 apps
from at and T and
another 15 apps from Samsung
that have nothing to do
with the Android experience that
had been installed by default.
And it's confusing. It is
Android. So when I went
into get an HSE one,
I originally went in to
get a galaxy S four
for some news coverage on
gotta be mobile. And I
felt the phone. I looked
at it, I played with
the play with the user
interface a little bit. And
I went, this is terrible.
I looked around, I looked
at the HTC one and
I'm like, well, at least
if I'm going to pick
an Android device, it's gotta
get great hardware. You know,
like it feels substantial in
the hand. And I feel
like Android manages to perfectly
replicate the problems I had
with windows mobile, which was,
you know, there are too
many fingers in this pie
and none of them are
doing a great job of
any Microsoft. Arguably was doing
a great job, but everyone
else who had a stake
in this just wasn't performing,
you know, Android is a
great operating system. Ish. You
know, it's not, it's Be
careful. You're going to anger
the Android fans, and they're
going to come for you.
Well, I've already angered the
windows phone fan. So, you
know, I might as well
make it equal opportunity, but
entrance great. Right. There are
things that happen on Android
that will never happen when
other operating systems, you know,
kind of like having two
applications, label music that you
can install. Yeah, that's true.
I mean, the thing is
though about Android is that
the, the, the weaknesses that
you have full control and
the strength is that you
have full control. When you
swap out the keyboard, if
you want to you, is
there something that you don't
like about it? You swap
it out in a phone,
like a, like an iPhone
or windows phone. If you
want to like have the
default maps app change, that's
trivial on Android, on iOS.
It's not really possible. No.
And those are great. Those
are great things to have.
If you're a power user,
that's the thing for you.
My problem is, is I'm
though my job dictates that
I am a power user.
I'm not a power user.
I don't like that kind
of control. Sometimes. I like
to be told how to
do things and you know
where to go and where
to find it. And I
feel like the industry, I
feel like the success of
the iPhone and to a
certain extent when this phone
validates that sometimes you need
company design driven user interfaces.
Sometimes you want to say,
you know, stop, you can't
do that. That's going to
be detrimental to you. Yeah,
exactly. Exactly. So you're saying
that you think you might
go back. I think that
I have decided I'm agnostic.
I'm going to move freely
from phone to phone. You
know, sometimes I'll go to
Easter sometimes I'll go to,
I don't know, Yom Kippor,
you know what I mean?
I'm going to be non-religious,
I'll go on a good
joint. All of my friends
in all of their technology
platforms For me, I, I,
I know that I'm probably
gonna go back and it's
not because iOS isn't great.
I, it is personally, I
actually love iOS seven and
apparently I'm one of the
few people do, but I've
got to go back because
unlike some people, I am
a very steeped in Microsoft's
complete ecosystem. And just like
you, your car analogy, I'm
actually the jerk who goes
out and buys everything from
every company, you know, everything
that a specific company matrix,
and I've had a Zune.
I had a zoom since
2006, You used to be
like Zune guy. Like you
were all about the Zune.
Yeah. I, and I still,
I still adore Zune. I
love X-Box music, but it's,
you know, it's like that
first love, you know, like,
yeah, you've moved on, you
know, and you found girls
that are prettier, but you're
not entirely sure that if
she showed up one day,
you wouldn't go back. Well,
you know, it's about the
hardware. It really is. Zune
was like the first surface,
you know what I mean?
It just, it felt different.
It felt right in your
hands, but the ecosystem just
didn't happen. They should have
called it tiny Xbox or
something like that. Well, I
guess we got, we got
that up point eventually. I
mean, It's all coming together.
Yes. Microsoft products identify with
me because, you know, I
actually switched from a Mac
to a PC in 2005.
Like I went the opposite
way and fell into Zune
and everything else. And I
love what the company is
doing with Metro. You know,
like I adore SkyDrive I
think that live tiles are
absolutely brilliant. They're not brilliant.
When use, when they're your
only source of notifications, it's
a horror show, but you
know, like No live tiles
are the one thing that
once you put together a
really like, here's another idea.
I'm like, I've got ideas,
man, for, for commercials. Like
what about a commercial that
just shows different people's home
screens? Cause my wife's completely
different than mine. And whenever
I meet someone who has
a windows phone that hasn't
actually configured their home screen,
it's been two minutes, the
length of a commercial showing
them how to organize their
home screen and pin their
family and friends. And they
freak out their brains explode.
I've had this phone for
a year. I had no
idea. Yeah. And I think
that's also one of those
things that, you know, when
this phone is very, I'm
not gonna say power user
heavy, cause it's not. It's
just some of the things
aren't obvious unless you're looking
for them, you know, like
a lot of people don't
know the tap and hold
anything in order to resize
it. It's the new right-click,
it's not discoverable. Yeah. And
you know, all operating systems
do that. And that's so
I kind kinda, you know,
don't want to harp on
windows phone for it. But
when his phone is very,
when his phone uses that
gesture very heavily, you know?
Yeah. Well, cool. Well, thanks
for talking to me and
I assume that we can
go to gotta be mobile
and or end connected to
learn about your struggle, your
personal struggle with mobile phone
usage and whether or not
you decide to stick with
iPhone or go back and
forth. Yes, sir. All right.
Thank you so much, Travis
Pope for chatting with me
today, this has been another
episode of Hansel minutes and
we'll see you again next
week.